Semgrep OSS vs Semgrep AppSec Platform refresh (#1772)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-pro-vs-oss.md

    <dl style={{marginTop: '0px'}}>
      <dt>Semgrep Code</dt><dd>A SAST scanner that uses cross-file (interfile) and cross-function (intrafile) analysis for improved results over Semgrep OSS. Semgrep Code includes rules written by Semgrep's Security Research team, called <strong>Pro Rules</strong>. These rules use cross-file analysis to reduce false positives.</dd>
      <dt>Semgrep Supply Chain</dt><dd>A high-signal dependency scanner that detects reachable vulnerabilities in open source third-party libraries and functions across the software development life cycle (SDLC).</dd>
      <dt>Semgrep Secrets</dt><dd>A secrets scanner that, in addition to detecting secrets, validates these leaked secrets on a variety of services to help you prioritize active secrets.</dd>
    </dl>
  </dd>
</dl>

:::note
Semgrep Code and Semgrep Supply Chain are free for up to 10 contributors.
:::

## Comparison by core workflows

![Scope of each offering by core workflows](/img/security-program-workflows.svg) <br />
_**Figure**. A typical AppSec security program's core workflows and the scope of out-of-the-box Semgrep OSS and Semgrep AppSec Platform features._

### Deployment

> The process of integrating Semgrep into your developer and infrastructure workflows._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of integrating Semgrep into your developer and infrastructure workflows.
```

<div class="col-2-grid" >
<div> 

##### Semgrep OSS

Semgrep OSS runs in your local machine's CLI through the `semgrep scan` command.

> Deploying in bulk or at scale is manual: it can scan a remote repository by running a CI job but you must write and configure the CI job for each repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying in bulk or at scale is a manual task. Semgrep OSS can scan a remote repository by running as part of a CI job but you must write and configure the CI job for each repository. 
```

<!-- Environments are omitted due to differences in licensing -
`semgrep scan` can be run in IDE atm but the extension is proprietary -->

</div>
<div>

##### Semgrep AppSec Platform 

> Semgrep AppSec Platform can perform scans in the following environments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep AppSec Platform can scan in the following environments:
```

- CI
- Web app (for Managed Scans)
- CLI
- IDE
- `pre-commit`

Your scan configuration, such as rules and policies, and scan analysis (SAST, SCA, or secrets) are preserved across all environments.

> Users comfortable with granting Semgrep code access, can quickly deploy Semgrep to thousands of repositories through [Managed Scans](/deployment/managed-scanning).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users comfortable with granting Semgrep code access can quickly deploy Semgrep to thousands of repositories through [Managed Scans](/deployment/managed-scanning).
```

AppSec Platform supports various CI providers and source code managers (SCMs) such as GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, and Azure.

</div>
</div>

### Scanning and analyses

_The process of analyzing source code for findings. This section explains the analyses available to both product offerings._

<div class="col-2-grid"> 
<div>

##### Semgrep OSS

Semgrep OSS provides the following SAST analyses:

- Single file, cross function constant propagation
- Single function taint analysis 
- Semantic analysis

> The scope makes it fast, at the cost of coverage and precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The limited scope makes it fast, at the cost of coverage and precision.
```

It can't track data beyond a single function or file and may find more false positives.

</div>
<div>

##### Semgrep AppSec Platform 

Semgrep AppSec Platform supports SAST, SCA, and secret scans as listed in [Product terms](#product-terms). You can run these **scan types** across all of your environments, preserving any configuration you have made.

<details>

> <summary>Click to view Semgrep Code analyses (SAST)</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>Click to view Semgrep Code analyses and functions (SAST)</summary>
```

Not sure if this omission was deliberate or not, but if it is, feel free to ignore this comment

Author: The Semgrep Code section was indeed the only product that was purely about SAST analyses - Dependency search in SCA isn't really an analysis, more a search function and Historical scans in Secrets is also a function, not an analysis.

- Cross file, cross function constant propagation
- Cross file, cross function taint analysis 
- Framework and language-specific semantic analysis
</details>

<details>
<summary>Click to view Semgrep Supply Chain analyses and functions (SCA)</summary>
- Reachability analysis
- Software bill of materials (SBOM) generation
- Open source license enforcement
- Dependency search
</details>

<details>
<summary>Click to view Semgrep Secrets analyses and functions</summary>
- Validation of active, leaked secrets
- Entropy
- Historical scanning
</details>

> Additionally, the Semgrep team maintains and contributes to premium rules, known as Pro rules, specifically making use of the advanced analyses listed here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the Semgrep team maintains and contributes to premium rules, known as Pro rules, that specifically making use of the advanced analyses listed here.
```

Author: "that specifically make" is the correction I went with.

</div>
</div>

<br />

:::tip

> Certain languages, such as Apex, are available only on Semgrep AppSec Platform.

Reviewer: Semgrep AppSec Platform or Semgrep Pro?

Author: Semgrep Pro is usually used mostly to refer to the rules (these days). Apex is part of the proprietary engine itself, so "Semgrep AppSec Platform" it is.

However, you can output findings to JSON and SARIF then send those findings to an AppSec Posture Management (ASPM) software such as GitHub Advanced Security.

</div>
<div>

##### Semgrep AppSec Platform

###### Triage

Semgrep AppSec Platform tracks a single finding throughout its lifetime from its initial creation, when its status is **Open**, to various triage states such as **Ignored**, or **Reviewing**.

Developers and AppSec engineers are able to provide reasons for a finding's status, such as **Acceptable risk** or **False positive** for **Ignored** findings.

Semgrep AppSec Platform provides AI-assisted triage through Semgrep Assistant, which can analyze all your findings to suggest which findings it thinks are false positives. [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Learn more about Semgrep Assistant's accuracy.](https://semgrep.dev/blog/2023/assistant-public-beta)
Assistant also provides AI-assisted remediation with the following features:

- Step-by-step remediation.
- Can be viewed by developers and AppSec engineers in their preferred environment.
- Ability to learn your preferred libraries and functions through Assistant Memories.

> -

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Semgrep supports the creation of tickets in Jira and various notification channels such as Slack and webhooks.

</div>
</div>

### Tuning and prevention

_Tuning refers to the improvement of Semgrep's engine, rules, and policies to improve such metrics as the true positive rate, net new findings, and findings fixed before they enter production._

_Tuning assists in the prevention of vulnerabilities from entering production._

<div class="col-2-grid"> 
<div>

##### Semgrep OSS

> Tuning is not supported in Semgrep OSS but you can customize the rules you run on your scans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuning is not supported in Semgrep OSS, but you can customize the rules you run on your scans.
```

Semgrep OSS does not provide any metrics that may inform you of potential performance improvements you can make.

</div>
<div>

##### Semgrep AppSec Platform

The [Policies](/semgrep-code/policies) feature manages rules, helps block PRs or MRs from entering production, and configures which findings are presented to developers. This feature is available for both Semgrep Code and Secrets.

> You are able to test a rule's performance by first **monitoring** its performance (and showing it only in AppSec environments), then changing its mode to leave comments or help block a PR or MR from merging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test a rule's performance by first **monitoring** its performance (and showing it only in AppSec environments), then changing its mode to leave comments or help block a PR or MR from merging.
```
